README.md, before:


# InaSAFE Command Line Interface

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/inasafe/inasafe_cli.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/inasafe/inasafe_cli)

This is the command line client implementation for [InaSAFE](http://inasafe.org).

## Installation
Install on Ubuntu by:
1. Adding InaSAFE path to environment e.g:

   ```export InaSAFEQGIS=/home/akbar/dev/python/inasafe-dev/```
   
2. Adding QGIS to environment, or simply by updating run-env-linux.sh as necessary and run:
   
   ```source run-env-linux.sh```
   
3. Making inasafe CLI executable:
   
   ```chmod ug+x inasafe```
   
4. Soft-linking executable inasafe CLI to bin:
   
   ```sudo ln -s `pwd`/inasafe  /usr/bin```

## USAGE EXAMPLES
### Downloading exposures

```inasafe --download --feature-type=buildings --extent=106,84:-6,2085970:106,8525945:-6,1876174 --output-dir=/home/akbar/dev/data/test_cli/```

### Running scenario
- Downloading the exposure on the fly:

```inasafe --hazard=safe/test/data/gisv4/hazard/tsunami_vector.geojson --download --feature-type=buildings  --output-dir=/home/akbar/dev/data/test_cli/ --extent=106,7999364:-6,2085970:106,8525945:-6,1676174```

- Specifying the exposure:

```inasafe --hazard=safe/test/data/gisv4/hazard/tsunami_vector.geojson --exposure=safe/test/data/gisv4/exposure/raster/population.asc  --output-dir=/home/akbar/dev/data/test_cli/ --extent=106,7999364:-6,2085970:106,8525945:-6,1676174```

Commit message:

InaSAFE CLI 1.0.6 (#3)
* Add console scripts.

* No need to put main function.

* Put a main function.

* Fix usages.

* Update readme and download method.

* Update the flow in the main function.

* Stop running IF if there's invalid layer.

* Check if the layer path exists when opening a layer.

* Create output dir if doesn't exist.

* Add release script.

* Workaround for failing test in travis.

* Fix problem with usage.

README.md, after:


# InaSAFE Command Line Interface

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/inasafe/inasafe_cli.svg?branch=master)](https://travis-ci.org/inasafe/inasafe_cli)

This is the command line client implementation for [InaSAFE](http://inasafe.org).

## Installation
1. Install InaSAFE CLI by from pip by running this command:

   ```pip install inasafe-cli```

2. Make sure that your environment has QGIS. You can check if you environment is ready by running this on your python console:

   ```import qgis```

3. Add QGIS python plugin directory into your python path. [See here](https://github.com/inasafe/inasafe/blob/develop/run-env-linux.sh) 
   

## USAGE EXAMPLES
### Showing help

You can type ```inasafe``` or ```inasafe -h``` or ```inasafe --help``` to show how to use this command line

### Showing QGIS and InaSAFE version that is used

```inasafe -v``` or ```inasafe --version```

### Downloading exposures

```inasafe --download --feature-type=buildings --extent=106,84:-6,2085970:106,8525945:-6,1876174 --output-dir=/home/akbar/dev/data/test_cli/```

Feature type can be:
- roads 
- buildings
- building-points 
- potential-idp
- boundary-x (with x from 1 to11)

### Running scenario

When specifying the path to the hazard, exposure, or aggregation file, it can be relative or absolute.

You can run the scenario with extent or (mutually exclusive) with an aggregation layer

- Using extent:

```inasafe --hazard=safe/test/data/gisv4/hazard/tsunami_vector.geojson --exposure=safe/test/data/gisv4/exposure/raster/population.asc  --output-dir=/home/akbar/dev/data/test_cli/ --extent=106,7999364:-6,2085970:106,8525945:-6,1676174```

- Using aggregation layer
```inasafe --hazard=safe/test/data/gisv4/hazard/tsunami_vector.geojson --exposure=safe/test/data/gisv4/exposure/raster/population.asc  --aggregation=safe/test/data/gisv4//aggregation/small_grid_complex.geojson  --output-dir=/home/akbar/dev/data/test_cli/```
